---
layout: page
link: Local information
image: /assets/images/local.png
---

# Getting to St Andrews

## By air

The closest large airport is Edinburgh. There are various ways of 
getting from the airport to St Andrews, all of which involve transfers.

### Bus - train - bus

A shuttle bus is available from the airport to both Haymarket and 
Waverley railway stations in the centre of Edinburgh. From either 
station, take a train (with final destination Aberdeen or Dundee) to 
Leuchars. From Leuchars, take a taxi or a 94/96/99 bus to St Andrews 
(buses run approximately every 15 minutes on weekdays). A taxi fare to 
St Andrews should cost roughly 8-10 pounds, and bus timetables are 
posted at the bus stop just outside the station, or can be found at the 
Stagecoach website.

### Tram - train - bus

Alternatively, you can also take a tram to the recently opened Edinburgh 
Gateway train station (which is only 4 stops away). From there, take a 
train (with final destination Aberdeen or Dundee) to Leuchars, and 
continue as above. Note that Edinburgh Gateway offers less train 
connections than Edinburgh Haymarket or Waverley, but if you have a good 
connection, the journey is about 30 minutes shorter.

### Bus -bus

Stagecoach has a Jet 747 shuttle bus from Edinburgh Airport to Ferrytoll 
Park & Ride and Halbeath Park & Ride, from where you can take a 
X58/X59/X60 express bus that goes straight to St Andrews. This is the 
cheapest way to travel from the airport to St Andrews, as you can use a 
single Fife Dayrider+ ticket for both legs of the journey, but note that 
it can take considerably longer than the tram - train - bus option.

## By Rail

The closest station to St Andrews is Leuchars. See the National Rail 
Network website for train times. From Leuchars, take a taxi or a 
94/96/99 bus to St Andrews (buses run every 15 minutes approx. on 
weekdays). A taxi fare to St Andrews should be approximately 8-10 
pounds, and bus timetables are posted at the bus stop just outside the 
station, or can be found at the Stagecoach website.

## By Road from the South

After crossing the Forth Road Bridge (80p toll going north only), follow 
the M90 to junction 8, then the the A91 east through Cupar to St 
Andrews.

## By Road from the West

After crossing the Kincardine Bridge, follow the A977 then M90 to 
junction 8, then the A91 east through Cupar to St Andrews.

## By Road from the North

Cross Tay Bridge at Dundee, then follow the A919 and A91 through 
Leuchars and Guardbridge to St Andrews.

# Getting to Agnes Blackadder Hall

The accomodation is located on the North Haugh site of the University of 
St Andrews. Please see this map for directions:

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d2211.392719434403!2d-2.816249748175216!3d56.34030818061991!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x488657829e5cbb3f%3A0xc253a6b45fc4cc48!2sAgnes+Blackadder+Hall!5e0!3m2!1sen!2suk!4v1549471782531"
        class="custom-map"></iframe>
